On November 26, 1941, the Japanese First Air Fleet sortied
from the Kurile Islands with Pearl Harbor as its
destination.  By the next day, it was obvious that
negotiations between Japan and the United States regarding
Japan's "adventure" in China and the resultant economic
boycott by the US had broken down. War warnings began to
be issued to Allied forces in the Pacific.  War became an
inevitability once Nagumo's carriers passed the "point of
no return" on December 4th.  When and where would the blow
fall were the only unanswered questions for the Allies.

As Supreme Allied Commander, Pacific, you must resist
Japanese expansion.  The Allied forces at your disposal
are weak at the outset, as the war in Europe has been
given strategic priority.  Hitler must be defeated first.
Until the manufacturing might of the United States can be
harnessed and truly become the "arsenal of democracy", you
must pursue a defensive strategic policy on all fronts.
In time, offensive operations can commence.  The ultimate
goal...the unconditional surrender of the Empire of Japan.

As supreme commander of Japan's war machine, you must
seize the "Southern Resources Area" and secure for Japan
the raw materials she requires to pursue her destiny as
the leading Asian nation within the "Greater East Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere."

Further, you are required to establish a defensive
perimeter of bases with which to repulse any attempt by
the West to reclaim what is rightfully Japan's.  While 
doing so, crush all opposition.  Japan must be in a
position of strength to withstand the weight of Western
industrial might sure to be brought to bear once the enemy
have recovered from the initial blows.  You must make this
conflict cost prohibitive for the morally weak West and
force the Allied nations to sue for peace, accepting
Japanese territorial gains and Nippon's rise as a world
power.


(Designer's note:  Production is 'on' for this scenario,
please NOte this is a quiet CHINA Scenario if playing the
AI for either side - this is a global decison that cannot
be reversed later) 