This is repeated in the Japanese Scenario Detail - as this is Important  to understand when playing the Japanese in this scenario.

Historical Note:
Oil Production in the DEI:

Japan did attempt to exploit the DEI's natural resources (oil, rubber, tin, etc.). Oil of course was the key resource. The Japanese managed to seize only about 4 million barrels of oil as many of the storage tanks were destroyed. Even worse for the Japanese, actually producing oil proved to be a much more difficult undertaking than seizing the oil fields. This is because the Dutch had anticipated the invasion and did a very through job on puting the fields out of operation, especially the all important refineries. The Japanese war planners had anticipated quickly bringing the oil fields and refineries back on line. It proved to be a much more difficult undertaking than anticipated. The whole task was furthur set back when a transport ship carrting refinery equipment and even more important skilled refinery personnel was sunk. This meant that the refineries were off line all of 1942. For the Japanese this proved a disaster. The Japanese finally managed to get production up to 50 million barrels, 76 percent of its 1940 output rate (1943). The problem for the Japanese was that producing oil in the DEI did them little good.


In- Game Effect:
Historically, Balikpapan and Tarakan's oil wells and all-important oil refineries were completely torched by the Dutch in 1942. In retaliation the Japanese executed all Dutch P.O.W.'s and some civilians in those areas.
In this scenario, those facilities start destroyed.  Normally, to repair one point of oil production, or oil refinery, costs 1000 supply per point repaired.

To accurately portray the historical situation (the destruction of these facilities) WITHOUT costing the Japanese player nearly 1 Million Supply to repair - Balikpapan and Tarakan have been given Automatic Supply to cover the ongoing supply cost of facility repair.

The net effect is that if these facilities have Repair ON, Production OFF, and are NOT attempted to Expand - they will auto-repair themselves in about 2 years, which is historically about right - WITHOUT becoming a Supply Sinkhole to the Japanese Player's Economy.

B








